According to the correlation matrix (Figure 2), following positive correlations in the data stand out: company location and employee residence, company location and salary currency, employee residence and salary currency, employee residence and salary in USD, company location and salary in USD, and salary currency and salary in USD. Negative correlations include remote ratio and work year. However, some of these correlations are not truly meaningful. Naturally, the residence of the employee will correlate with the location of the company and the currency of the salary. The same applies to the currency of the salary and the location of the company. On the other hand there are also correlations which are more meaningul, such as remote ratio to work year, because the reason is not as obvious. 

The plot showing the salary distribution by experience level (Figure 3) reveals a noticeable progression in the median salary as seniority increases. Mid and Senior level positions exhibit a wider range of salaries compared to Entry and Executive level positions, which display a more concentrated distribution. Notably, despite the lower median salary, some salaries within the Entry and Mid level positions surpass those in the Mid and Senior level. 

The data analysis of the top then highest paid data science jobs (Figure 4) reveals that “Analytics Engineering Manager” holds the position of highest remuneration, with an average annual salary of approximately 400 000 USD. “Data Science Tech Lead” follows in second place, earning an average annual salary of approximately 375 000 USD. “Head of Machine Learning” completes the top three, with an average annual salary of approximately $300,000 USD. 

According to the lineplot showing the salary trend by year (Figure 5), the salaries for Entry, Mid, and Senior level show a negative growth until 2021 and then shift to a positive growth until year to date. Executive level salaries show a more consistent growth. The confidence interval, represented by the shaded area around the line, narrows progressively from 2020 to 2024, indicating an increasing amount of data points. 

The plot work arrangements percentage by year (Figure 6), indicates that prior to 2021, the frequency of remote and hybrid work arrangements increased, while the frequency of on-site work arrangements declined. Conversely, in 2022, the pattern reversed, with an increase in on-site work arrangements and a subsequent decrease in remote and hybrid work arrangements. This is probably due to the covid pandemic, which caused a lot of employees to work remotely or hybrid in order to decrease the probability of getting infected. After the peak of the pandemic, the pattern evolved towards more on-site work arrangements again in 2022.

The salary distribution by company size (Figure 7) showcases that small and large companies exhibit similar median salaries, with large companies slightly higher. Medium companies, on the other hand, have a significantly lower median salary. Large companies appear to have a higher concentration of outliers in the upper salary ranges, with the highest annual salary recorded at 800,000 US Dollars. Small and medium-sized companies have salaries that peak at approximately 430,000 US Dollars per year.